meeting 1:
differnt obs for DM
DM - relic density (well measured)
    - how it interacts with our world (grav waves)

diff models:
    if DM >> grav, then detectable
    underground dirac DM detection (direct)
    indirect detection of DM
    collider search (energy of collider to mass of DM) - invisible recoil visible
        missing momenta

- more observables

- SM 
- particle interaction
- beyond SM - how interaction is different
- calc DM relic density (DM observable)

to do :
plot E against cross section of e+e- -> mu+ mu- (E = 10 -> 200 GeV)

jaxeldroid


-----
strength of interaction?
derive connection between cross section with matrix element squared


do excersises 1-3 on calchep lectures
connect n of events with cross section and luminosity

reading reviews of dark matter
-matrix elements and cross section 
> lit/books/Yann_Mambrini_Book.pdf  and ./Gorbunov-Rubakov.pdf

idea: understand how production of DM works in the universe

important basic stuff
universe hot. initial temp unknown (big bang, dont know when and how hot. we know for sure it was above 10MeV, otherwise Bigbang will not happen.)
should be sufficiently hot to generate protons and neutrons.
strong confidence that there was inflation (big bang was an expansion from a singularity which slowed down over time)
all particles in plasma in thermal equilibrium. energy of plasma -> high enough to produce particles (E = mc^2)
assume DM is particles. and DM interact with particles. at high enough temps (higher than their mass) they behave relativisticly and behave similarly (same numbee of dof (1-3 factor difference))
universe cooling down, temp drops exponentially ~14 billion years to current day.
at some point the temperature became lower than DM mass, meaning it can annihilate with SM particles (however, there is no reverse process. (freeze out process))
dark matter -> sm particles, no way around. depending on c.s, relic density can be derived. higher rate, the less DM there is.
dm density drops due to annihilation. reaction rate becomes smaller than the rate of expansion of the universe. then DM canot annihilate anymore due to low density. then dm density ~ constant (freeze out)
if DM annihilates too strongly, no relic DM left. If DM reacts too weakly, there will be too little DM, and the universe will be filled with too much DM -> universe closes up
controlled by boltzmann equation (classical) to know the rate of reaction. 
freeze in - if DM interacts with SM particles weakly, at high temps SM particles and DM will not be in thermal equilibrium (since they react weakly). rarely that SM particles react with DM. 

using axo into latex

dvips latex 
and then ps2pdf then import pdf into latex
-make noets what are particle groups in the SM - properties, etc.

antiparticle? 
neutron (udd) - antineutron (u*d**d) annihilation 
up vs antiup - opposite charge

botlzmann equation relating to cosmology

-------MOTIVATION------
meeting notes oct 31st
- graviton
[not same as gravitational wave]

